[Music]
Oh, Venerable Shakyamuni Buddha,
Namo Buddha,
Venerable Shakyamuni Buddha, Namo
Buddha, Venerable Shakyamuni Buddha,
dear
congregation, today I would like to
share this part for the benefit of the congregation.
Last night, the staff
reminded everyone that the women's side should
practice walking meditation below, while the
men's side should practice meditation in the area
above. When he went down,
he saw that the area below was
too cramped and not safe for us to practice meditation.
So he reminded everyone to start walking up
there. Early in the morning, when he started walking
down, he saw one, two, three people going
up. He reminded them, saying, "This is
Lan's area, you shouldn't go up here." Because
he had just come down from there, he didn't know that
this place wasn't the cramped area. So those
people turned back down and went up. It was getting dark, he didn't
know who they were. Later, when he came down, he
saw everyone else walking in
two rows, walking in cramped conditions.
While walking, Yen reminded
everyone to start walking towards the capital. When they reached the top,
they saw several people meditating up there.
After meditating, they went
higher and saw several more
meditating. This was the second case. Then,
when Yen reminded everyone to go back,
there was a fellow practitioner wearing a robe sitting
near Yen, just a short distance away. The practitioner
clasped their hands together, probably holding something or
something. But it took
several reminders before they finally stood
up and went back. So, Yen will read
this part of the Dharma so that we all understand
clearly why we shouldn't do that. Because
last night I reminded them, but they still
repeated it today. Last night I reminded them,
during the session I was giving
earlier, but they still repeated it.
This repeated violation is because they haven't been
taught the Dharma of the Buddha,
right? They haven't been taught the Dharma of the
Buddha, they don't understand. Today, Yen will share this
so that we all understand clearly. If you have any
questions, please feel free to ask.  When the great-
grandmother Datta came to the Buddha, the first rule
the Buddha established was that monks should always practice alms-gathering, and
if someone offered them food, they should accept it.
Now,
Datta's rule is the opposite of the Buddha's. We, on the other hand, advocate that we do
not eat what is offered,
nor do we accept food offered by others. We
do not take what Datta offers; we only eat what we have to beg for.
That is, Datta
established stricter rules than the Buddha.
I will explain:
firstly, he instructed his disciples to always practice alms-
gathering, meaning we should go begging for food. Monks
go begging from place
to place, meaning they go begging for
food themselves. Secondly, if someone offers food, they should
accept it, meaning they are invited to his house for an offering. They are
invited to his palace for an offering;
that's how the Buddha established it.
Furthermore, if someone offers food, they should also accept it.
What does "offering food" mean when the monks are already
eating? For example, if the monks are eating
and someone brings food to them as an offering, they are
happy to bring it to them.  If someone puts food
in the alms bowl of the
monks, they still eat, right? There are some people, and when
I return from a fasting retreat, even if someone offers food in my
alms bowl, I won't eat anymore.
This is the practice of the Bodhisattva, so what about the
Bodhisattva? I won't eat if someone offers it, I
won't accept it if someone invites me, and I won't take anything if
someone gives it to me. If someone offers it, it means I'm already eating. Then they
put it in the bowl, and I won't
take anything at all. I only practice the Dharma, which is to
go and offer food. You see, that means I
myself come from the monastery or the
monks just go and offer food. I
won't accept anything from anyone who invites me. That's another thing. The
second thing the Buddha prescribed is the "dust-washing robe,
" which is the amount of cloth discarded in the cemetery,
brought back, washed clean, and used to make the robe.
If anyone wraps it in the robe, I will accept it.
Now, the Bodhisattva's principle
is that the dust-washing robe is the main robe, and if anyone wears a robe, the Bodhisattva will
not accept it. That's
stricter than the Buddha.
The third thing the Buddha
prescribed is the "open-seated robe" or "seat of longevity," but if
someone comes to the monastery or temple, they will also
stay there, meaning the "open-seated robe" or "seat of longevity" is...
So, in all those places, dear audience,
or the monks are in the forest, in cemeteries, in
open fields, on hillsides, under
trees—that's the place of worship. And then there's the place of
rest, which is when they come to a
village, and that village
has a place where they invite monks. For example,
in the time of the Buddha, there were
thatched houses, and those houses were
like a
hotel today, a meeting hall where the
whole community could listen to the Dharma. The whole village would
meet there, the whole area would
meet there—that's what we call a
hotel or guesthouse. Do you understand? The
Buddha allowed them to rest there. When they passed through, they
invited monks, and the monks
could stay there. Or if
someone built a monastery or temple, the
monks would stay there. The word "temple"
didn't exist during the time of the Buddha. Do you understand? In the earliest times, the
most important thing was a "temple"—to make you understand, a "temple"
was a place not built for worship.  It's just about
building and practicing, do you understand? For example, the
two sides of the monks' living quarters
can be called a monastery, and the
temple area is the main hall, do
you understand? The main hall is above
and the monks' quarters are below, or the main hall is
here. That is, within a compound
built like this, that's called a temple. Do
you understand? A monastery is a
place that doesn't worship Buddha because the master already has
Buddha, do you understand? A
monastery is where the monks live, meaning offerings are
taken from both the monastery and the temple. Do
you understand? That's for the monks to
live and practice.
And what
about Devadatta? It's not allowed. Devadatta only sits
on the ground or under a tree.
And if anyone wants to eat at a monastery or in a lecture hall,
Devadatta wouldn't
accept it. Fourthly, the Buddha decreed that one shouldn't eat butter or
oil that's been left overnight. That means during the Buddha's time, when the
monks went on seven-day fasting trips,
butter and oil were the two most delicious foods. Do
you understand? Butter and oil are the
most delicious, so they shouldn't be left overnight.  After
going on alms rounds, if something looks
so delicious, you might save it for tomorrow.
Or, when you see something so tasty, you might
eat a lot of it, and then
eat it again the next day. Because few
people would rush to eat it. During the time of the Buddha, there was
very little oil in the kitchen. Do you understand?
For example, in the old days, the Buddha went to the
king's palace, and in those
wealthy schools,
people would give the monks a lot of food.
Because monks
went to eat a lot among the poor, their
bodies could get sick. When they
saw that food, they might eat
a lot, and that's greed nurturing greed,
and they would be consumed by the karma of greed,
unable to control themselves. So the Buddha had to
establish precepts to control greed. Do you understand? That's the precept I mentioned. I said that even
oil shouldn't be
eaten overnight. That means you shouldn't take that nutritious thing, you should
n't take it. If you see it, you should
n't take it. That's the precept I mentioned.
Fifth, the Buddha
said that the Threefold Relic is not to be seen.  "
Not seeing and not
doubting" means not seeing the animal being killed,
not hearing the cries of the Buddha being killed, and
not doubting that the animal was killed to be offered as a sacrifice.
Bodhidharma advocated that even if the animal had a stem, one should
not eat it. This means that if the
animal is not killed, it is the meat of all living beings, for example, chicken, duck, pig, or any other living creature. The monks are considered to have fulfilled these three conditions: not seeing the animal being killed (meaning we
see
someone killing an animal, and then we go to get food).
That is the principle of greed, understood? It means that if
someone sees someone
killing an animal, they immediately grab their alms bowl and go
there. That is the monks living for food,
not for the purpose of killing.
Therefore, the monks do not see the
animal being killed (firstly), do not
hear the animal's cries (for example,
sitting here, but hearing
an animal cry from the other side, knowing there is
meat there, then grabbing their alms bowl and going to
beg for food). That is greed, but understood? The
third is doubt (or
suspicion).  Here, what does it mean to
suspect someone of killing for food? The suspicion has
two parts. First, if someone invites
you to an alms-giving ceremony, you must tell
them not to kill
living beings. Is that clear? Because if you
kill living beings, that's killing for
your own food, and you're suspicious. Second, you should
n't go two days on the same alms-
giving route. That is, if you go begging
here today, the benefactor
might think you're too thin, or
they might like you too much, so tomorrow they might
kill an animal to wait for you to come and offer it to
you. So, you shouldn't go two days on the
same route. Today you go east, tomorrow you
must go west, so even if they kill an animal,
you won't take it. Is
that clear? That's how you eliminate the suspicion. And when
you go unintentionally like this, if someone kills an animal
for their family,
you get to eat it. But
Devadatta established that monks
shouldn't eat living beings when going begging.
Yen asked, "Why did Devadatta
establish such a strict rule?"  Even with such strict rules, the Buddha
didn't let them understand. So,
was the Buddha more greedy than the Great Bodhisattva,
or was the Buddha more lustful than the Great Bodhisattva?
Yen will
explain this to the congregation. The
Buddha is a fully enlightened being;
he clearly understands all the causes and conditions of
sentient beings. Do you understand? Therefore,
when a Buddha's disciple goes begging for alms with a mind free from
greed, and eats the three pure meats, the animal that is
killed is saved. Do you understand
this point? The Buddha knows the root causes and conditions
of sentient beings. With a mind free from greed, he eliminates greed, and is free from
seeing, not seeing, not hearing,
not doubting—is that not being free
from greed? With such a mind, any animal that is killed and given to that family to eat, that animal and that family are saved. That's the complete set of conditions. The first part is the food that is offered during begging. That is, the point the Bodhisattva set
is simply to go begging for alms.
That is, if someone offers
food, accept it, and if someone makes an offering, accept it. If someone
cancels the offering, accept it,
because those people have a heart of seeking.
Inviting the Buddha means that people are
in a state of heightened awareness. Those who are invited by the monks to beg for
alms are doing so for the
first time, and this is a great opportunity for the community.
I will explain each level
to the community. That's the level of awareness. As for
those who see the monks and invite them to beg for
alms, they have already formed a connection with the
monks beforehand, and now
they receive the merit of being elevated to a
higher level. That is, showing respect to the Sangha will
make them practice better, and the community will understand.
And the third thing is the joyful offering. Okay,
you've invited them to your house, but the third thing is the karmic
connection of the person making the
offering. That is, they have something
most precious to offer, do you understand? When they
invite a large group, but they
have something most precious, or
this precious thing of theirs happens to be with
a Lao monk in this Sangha—do
you understand? Then
they joyfully offer it, that karmic connection is very
auspicious for their liberation. Do you understand?
Only the Buddhas,
with their wisdom, can do that.  A
truly enlightened being understands all causes and
conditions. When he creates something, it is
all for the liberation and benefit of
sentient beings, for their liberation. Do you understand?
As for the Bodhisattva Dhādatta, he only attained the
five supernatural powers.
When a person attains the five supernatural powers, they
see others as
equals, as if they have attained the power of eliminating defilements. They think they are
equal because they
have attained the power of eliminating defilements. But with
the five supernatural powers, they also know
past lives. Do you understand? That's
called the power of instantaneous life, knowing
past lives. Then there's the power of
knowing other people's minds, do you understand?
That means they
know other people's minds a little bit. But
our Buddha has the power of eliminating defilements, so
you understand? But the
person who attained the five supernatural powers doesn't know that. They do
n't know
that. That means the five supernatural powers are partly
similar to the Threefold Knowledge and the Six Supernatural Powers, do you understand?
But they cannot
know. Remember, they cannot know the
Threefold Knowledge of the Buddha. Do you
understand? So he just thinks...
That's because his understanding is equal to that of a Buddha. That's why
he created
those prohibitions. Because his mind thinks
he's equal to a Buddha. I'm saying
this so that everyone can
understand him and his karma. This is about understanding
him; from that understanding, we can comprehend
this karmic force
and avoid falling
into it again. If we hate him, we
won't understand him, we won't understand
him, and we'll fall into the same trap as
him. So we must
understand him to
understand why people are like that.
Is that clear, teacher? It's
because he has attained that state.
He thinks he's equal to a
Buddha, he thinks he's equal to a Buddha,
so he created these things
to help sentient beings practice better.
Do you understand that mind?
Usually, people think, "I have a
good mind," but if their wisdom isn't bright, that mind is
still ignorant. Do you understand that mind
?  I have a kind heart. I
want to benefit sentient beings, so I
think I'm being stricter than the Buddha to
prevent achieving greater success than the teacher. Do you understand? Is it true
that from the beginning, the
heart towards sentient beings wasn't developed,
but this heart is
influenced by virtue.
Listen, everyone, it's virtue that
causes this person to create karma. He
's a disciple of the Buddha, he should follow the Buddha,
but he always thinks
he will save sentient beings. He doesn't
think that he should go from the Buddha's place to save
sentient beings. The only difference is
the thinking in virtue, which leads to the
wrong path. Do you understand? It means there's something above
and something below, but we
don't think of ourselves as being
below, so we intend to do other
people's work. Do you understand?
Therefore, when entering the assembly, Yen said to do the
assigned duty and asked if there was
anything to avoid the cause of the
Bodhidharma. Do you understand?
We still develop, but we
develop according to the cause and
effect. Here, it can be suspected that...  I like
that ignorant guy above. So if I'm
better, I can just keep developing, right?
That's where the ignorance of sentient beings lies. They
don't understand cause and effect. You may be better,
but you must have more virtue than others,
then this karmic connection will push you to
another place. You don't need to have the intention that you
and that person are equal. Why is that person above me? Do
you understand this point? If you don't
observe this carefully, you will suffer losses in life, and if you
enter the path, you will only destroy the path, you
won't be able to solve anything. Do you understand
this point of cause and effect? ​​Yen will explain cause and effect
to the audience so that you
can cultivate yourself and achieve liberation.
Otherwise, you will
never be liberated. For example,
everyone, listen to Yen talking about breaking down the karmic connection. Do you
like it?
[Applause]
From your liking, if
Yen doesn't understand the karmic connection of Mrs. Dat,
Yen will surpass the T. Do you understand?
Right?
But Yen knows that because there is the
word "Sangha," there is Yen. Do you understand?
Therefore, Yen must be below the
newly emerged novice monk. Do you understand? The
Three Jewels consist of the novice monk.  From the time of the
abbot until the time of the head monk, the ordination must be below the
newly ordained monk. Do you
understand? If you do, you will never do
anything that leads to
evil. Virtue is the
fundamental principle, the basis of all merits.
Do you understand? If someone
lacks virtue in their thinking, they will have no will. That means
whatever they do will lead to evil. Do you understand?
If you only consider virtue,
whatever you do will lead to the
right path. But if you don't consider virtue correctly,
whatever you do will lead to evil.
Because it is
ingratitude, that is ego. How can
such a mind lead to the right path?
Therefore, if
you feel you are very capable, you
must know that the person above
you is guiding you.
Following their guidance will benefit you. That is,
your karmic connection is to
protect and support the community. Do you understand? And what about the
person above you? If they lack virtue and
wisdom to be above you, then as long as
that community remains, they will have good fortune.  Then they
must perish and their lives must end, the master must clearly witness it,
or they must be
transferred in this world. No one can
alter karma and blessings. It's
only when you yourself create evil
paths that you suffer. When you give birth to
such evil thoughts, then
what about your leader? Is that
evil? Then they will
forever suppress you, preventing you from rising. That's because
you have an evil heart, and if your heart is evil, then
your leader must be evil. Do you
understand? So we must
observe very carefully, otherwise, following the example of
Bodhidharma is evil. Do you
understand? So, from yesterday to
today, you have been practicing evil. Right?
In the temple, you yourselves
set conditions, you yourselves sneak away to worship—
that's sowing the seeds to quickly become
Bodhidharma. Do you understand? Just comply and
do everything without asking for more; that
is the right cause and effect. That means here,
don't gather around. I think that's not allowed. It's too
much of a cause and effect that
I can't cultivate. I thought of this so
I can cultivate quickly. Remember this,
when the  People with virtue listen to
every word of the teachings of the one they
rely on. That teacher, naturally, suddenly
understands that it is because of their virtue that
their karma is naturally eliminated. It's not about
thinking up something new and then asking to leave to
practice. Those who don't understand what "practice" is, do you understand? Here, I will give a very practical example. It's not clear to everyone. Prince Siddhartha, at first, went to practice asceticism according to a
non-Buddhist path. But his virtue was complete compared to the teachings of the
non-Buddhist teachers. He
diligently followed their instructions.
Because of that diligence,
he became equal to the teachers and attained
enlightenment. Then, Siddhartha
said, "Teacher, is there
anything else you can teach me to practice?"
The teachers replied, "There is nothing more to teach
you. You have already practiced more than us.
Stay here and
lead our monastic community." You see, the
Buddha, because of
his virtue, surpassed six other
teachers.  Is this path due to virtue? Because of
that virtue, he sat
under the Bodhi tree and, through his virtuous actions, attained perfect enlightenment. Is that
due to virtue? We, the assembly, must focus
on virtue, not just the
method of practice. Virtue will
lead us to the method of practice that suits
us. Do you understand, teacher? In this world,
without virtue, you won't even have a bowl to
eat from. Remember, virtue is the
most essential and crucial thing. When a person has virtue,
their will naturally arises; they can
contemplate the Dharma and practice on their own within
their current circumstances. For example, in this
lecture, I'm
just saying that I'm not particularly
skilled. Perhaps you here simply have
n't had the opportunity to sit and talk. I
may have the same understanding
as you, but you may be less fortunate than me in having the opportunity to
sit here and
speak. It could be like that. Do you understand?
Just a difference in that one opportunity.
But this opportunity must also be
created by virtue and respect for the teacher. Teacher, do you
understand?
Therefore, I hope everyone will look
at their own virtues and strive to improve them, which
will create opportunities for our practice. Those who
lack virtue will not be able to reach the
right path, so we must always be
grateful. Those above
us have the opportunity to show us the utmost respect, the same
respect as the Buddha.
After he attained enlightenment, he
turned to other teachers to
guide them. Isn't that how respect gives rise to
gratitude?  And the gratitude isn't right, is
it? If a person doesn't already possess
those virtues, how can they become a
Buddha? The first thing to become a Buddha is to
remember those who taught them.
If, before, they had been arrogant and thought, "
I must ask for more things to
practice because you don't have the karmic affinity to teach me," then
that person wouldn't have attained enlightenment. Do
you understand?
Then, the reverence of the
Buddhas gives rise to a grateful heart. That's why,
sitting under the Bodhi tree, they attained enlightenment.
After that, they spent a week walking around
the Bodhi tree.
So, what about those below who
argue, "I'm better than you," how can they have a
grateful heart? They don't trust the
person who taught them. How can they know
the way to be grateful? Even if you practice a non-
Buddhist path, you still have to trust
your teacher to attain the
Dharma. Don't just say, "At the temple, the teacher
only teaches the Buddha's teachings." And if you
think of something else to practice, you
have to find someone else,
not just the Buddha, because the teacher only teaches the
Buddha's teachings.  He didn't teach anything.
If he only taught his own words, if he thought
up what he taught, then that wouldn't count as being
crude, right? But he
only taught the Buddha's scriptures, the Buddha's words,
so just practice all of the Buddha's words,
then ask for other methods to practice. Do you
see that? As for us,
our karmic connection is here, meaning
our karmic connection is here. Our cultivation is
based on the words the teacher says. Do you
understand? If you don't understand the karmic connection, you'll just go
against it. But from all the
words the teacher says, you will
understand, from that, you will practice, and from that, you
will be liberated. Remember that. I
tell the congregation not to go back and read
anything else. That is, the ego is doing it,
do you understand? If the ego is doing it,
how can you be liberated? Do you understand? You
shouldn't
go back and reread what the teacher taught. You
should read it over and over again, not contemplate it repeatedly
to practice, but you don't listen. But you go back and
buy more books to practice, which is
called the ego.  We also have to
show the ego, so how can we practice and keep abandoning it
without ever achieving it? We're all right, are
n't we? But we keep accumulating
more and more ego, so when will we ever achieve enlightenment? I'm
explaining this clearly so that when the
congregation comes to any assembly, they won't
disrupt harmony like the Buddha and the Bodhisattva who
destroyed the Buddha. Like those people just now, I'll have them stand up here to repent and eliminate this karma. Do you understand? All those who were like that this morning and yesterday who didn't act like that, if you want to eliminate the karma of the Bodhisattva, please come
up here. Respectfully, to the entire congregation, I'm
saying this before, I just told you to stand
up, I didn't say anything else. But
this is another karmic path, a
cause for
us to learn and gain experience.
These people are the ones who bring
us benefits. Those
below must be grateful to their teacher. Do you understand? If it were
n't for your fault, how would the congregation be today?
How would the congregation learn from experience? That's
why the Buddha's congregation and the
pure congregation are like this.  Whatever you see,
you must show gratitude to the community so they
understand. In the outside world, people are like that, but
in the spiritual path, one person's fault is a
blessing for those who haven't made mistakes,
preventing them from ever committing errors.
Therefore, those who haven't made mistakes must be
grateful to those who have made mistakes. Do you understand? That's the true spirit of contemplative thinking for liberation. And all of you who have made mistakes here, you must be grateful to the community
below, those who are currently
in this Dharma Assembly today. They
obey the community and are harmonious, so they have the
strength to help you eliminate these
karmic sins. So you must know
that without this community,
you would
only become a Bodhisattva if you met the Buddha. You would
never progress in your practice
because of the kindness of the community.
So you must be grateful, do you understand?
Otherwise, you might think, "
Why are you bringing me here to
ridicule me?" That would be very annoying, and you would
never be able to eliminate your karma. So
you must sincerely be grateful to the
community.  Repentance and vows:
Wherever there is a congregation, we must
abide by the congregation's rules. If we don't abide by
them, we must loudly declare, "I
find the things you propose
unreasonable. I find them wrong. I
wish to leave this congregation." Is that clear? The
rules were already explained during the
filming. We
agreed. We consented. Then we
go and do it. First, we have the intention
to surpass the Guide,
meaning to help Bodhidharma surpass the
Buddha. Though small, the result is not
small, everyone. All those
causes are very small. For example, a
sesame seed is small, but
how many seeds does a sesame plant produce? Is that small? No, no, it's not
small. So, one
cause produces many effects, and one
effect produces many causes.
It's called the interconnectedness of dependent origination.
But if one
cause is eliminated, does it eliminate many sins? If one seed is eliminated,
how
many other sesame seeds are lost? Do you understand?
This is a great blessing.  It's a large group, so it's the same
in the assembly. Although Yen
has instructed everyone to do it, they
still haven't cultivated this yet. So
Yen still stands above, providing a place for
everyone to ask questions. As for techniques,
skills, and worldly affairs, everyone already has
enough. Yen doesn't need to guide them
anymore; they can
do worldly things on their own. Chanting scriptures, striking the wooden
gong, and reading are just worldly things,
but this cultivation of the mind is what leads to liberation. Do you
understand, teacher? This observing mind is what
leads to liberation. So,
Yen's presence might just be a title, okay?
When Yen observes, that title is already a title, but
Yen has already abandoned the title and is only for the benefit of the
assembly. What does "
monopolizing" mean? It means not allowing anyone to
develop, do you understand? Not wanting
your assembly to develop?
And when you want your assembly to
develop, Yen will tell them
this: Then, the head of the assembly will
know how to develop those
below. Yen will also set an example for the
assembly to strive, and the assembly will know how to
practice the Dharma of renunciation. Do you understand, teacher?  Since
they already know how to do it, I
'll just be in a certain position, supporting the
masses. Yen is just someone
standing here to allow the masses to
discuss, ask questions, and express their opinions, thereby enhancing the
merit and wisdom.
Do you understand, everyone? So, to give the masses
many things here, today, from this
awareness, that is, everyone is aware, that is,
enlightened, no longer
ignorant of this place. That is,
we have witnessed this understanding
fully, do you understand? So now,
Yen will speak first, so that you can
follow. My fellow practitioners, please follow
below. If we listen to this,
knowing gratitude, then our assembly can be
pure. If there is criticism below, the
assembly will never be pure, do
you understand? Because of you,
we will avoid this mistake;
because of you, we will hear
this Dharma sharing. Your merit
is not small, so we
must understand that. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
Dear all fellow practitioners,
we have just listened to the
Dharma talk and
realized that
it is karma from the
past. We have not
respected our teachers who
guided
us, and that is why today,
in this pure assembly, we have been led astray by karmic
forces,
causing us to
fall into karmic
retribution,
disrupting the harmony of the assembly, disrespecting those who
guided us in our practice, and
not
respecting ourselves. Because
we have agreed to and accepted the
established rules, we humbly request that the
entire assembly bear
witness to
our repentance of
these sins through our
vows.  We
vow that when
practicing in this assembly, we will
always
contemplate the Six Harmonies. We also vow that we will always live
in a pure assembly
with our fellow practitioners. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni. All fellow
practitioners who have made
mistakes and shortcomings during our practice today,
from this understanding, we pray that you, our fellow practitioners, will continue to rely on the true Dharma of the Buddha
for future generations, upholding the Buddha's teachings and
practicing the Buddha's Dharma. Together
with the assembly, we pray to the Supreme Bodhisattva Mahasattva to bear witness and
protect us. Namo
Bodhisattva Mahasattva. Namo
Bodhisattva Mahasattva. Namo Everlasting Family.  The
Bodhisattva and Thy respectfully
invite all of us to return to our place
because the mind towards the masses is very
important. If the masses do not
understand our minds, then
our practice will not progress. Do you understand? If you
don't understand, you won't progress.
But if we focus on virtue,
by looking at our own virtue, we will discover
their minds. Do you understand? By focusing on
our own virtue, we will know
whether this mind is evil or righteous.
Because the precepts are very simple;
we may not kill, steal, commit adultery, lie, or do
all those things, but respect is
lacking. Do you see that, the masses?
Therefore, when people
practice these five precepts, they are the
people that the Buddha taught have little dust in their
eyes. That is, people who have sufficient
morality and worldly virtue, who know how to respect elders and yield to
juniors. Filial piety and obedience are what keep the five precepts, the masses. As for the Buddha's teachings, they are
not truly for those who have
a lot of dust in their eyes, meaning they cannot
see above or below, and cannot behave
properly.  It's difficult to practice the
Buddha's precepts in that situation. Remember, we
listened to the story of Brahma. He
came to the Buddha to preach the Dharma, to
turn the Wheel of Dharma. Then the Buddha
saw that sentient beings were too attached and could
n't practice. Later, the
Buddha said, "Enough! I'm preaching the Dharma for
those sentient beings who still have some dust
in their eyes—that is, they must have morality
first—before they can practice. They must know how to respect elders and be humble to those below them, and be in
accordance with the ways of the world. If you understand this, it's not about living with a sense of hierarchy, of order, of beginning and end. Only those people can enter and practice the Buddha's precepts. Those who
don't know how to respect elders and be humble to those below them, of order, of beginning and end, will
only be destroying the Buddha's teachings. That's just a simple
example. For instance, you might say you have no hierarchy, no
above, no below, no
before, no after. One day you
say one thing, the next day you forget it immediately.
That's also a good omen.
So let me explain to the audience
that
we must cultivate virtue first.
Instead of cultivating virtue, they immediately
turn to scriptures and books, going from
one book to another, practicing meditation and... well, what else?
Yesterday, Yen
explained to the congregation about delusion and immoral thoughts.
How can those immoral thoughts allow us to cultivate
ourselves? We must first have moral habits, then when
we cultivate, we will no longer be
controlled by evil karma, and only then can we
delve deeply into the precepts and meditation.
Do you understand? You can't just say, "
Why do I only teach
morality?" You can't teach the Buddha's teachings.
That's like saying, "If you
don't climb from the bottom of the pine tree, how
can you climb to the top?" Right? It must start
from the foundation of morality. Therefore,
in the Three Principles of Rebirth, the first is filial
piety towards parents, then serving one's
teacher. That's
not about becoming a teacher of a
master or a teacher of someone
above; it means serving, that means being a
subordinate.  That means below,
do you understand? That means only when you have
virtue can you practice Buddhism. Those
without virtue cannot practice Buddhism. Let's understand
clearly today. I will explain to the
congregation about virtue. We need to
cultivate virtue and repent.
What mistakes and errors did I make? Yesterday and the day before, I made a
mistake. The master assigned me a
short task like this, and today it's empty.
Then I went down to the thicket below.
The master only assigned it to me alone. Then
I thought, 'I specialize in working in
this thicket, and I can
do this alone. If he had given it to
someone else who hadn't done this before, they would have probably
run away in fear.' It means I need to cultivate
a little bit of self-control.
Amitabha Buddha. Yes, so today I also respectfully ask
before the Buddhas, the Deities, and the
congregation, and we all joyfully
give the
doctor another thing. Amitabha Buddha. Another mistake
is that yesterday when I went to get rice, the
nuns told me to get a lot and eat dinner. If I
didn't eat dinner, I should get a lot and...  So, I
took a little bit, and on
the way, I thought about the altar, and I
chewed on the rice porridge while walking back and forth, making sure it was well-prepared so it would last
longer for lunch.
But you made another mistake, a
mistake you just made, and you didn't point it out, you didn't
know how to repent. That means you're making a mistake,
and this is karma. Yen said it's karma, and
now you have to listen to the
truth. First, the karma of
selfishness, so it controls you. You can't
observe what time this is.
This is the time of beginning the Dharma, not
the time of repentance.
Repentance is about repenting yourself.
But if you want to eliminate your
sins, aren't you still selfish compared to the general public? That's
why observing the
Dharma isn't easy. So, let me tell you, if you
want to eliminate the sin of
selfishness, you have to know how to adapt to the times. When it's right,
eat when you eat. When people tell you
to go to sleep, go to sleep. When they tell you to
repent, repent. When they tell you to listen to the
Dharma, listen to the Dharma. Understood? It will
eliminate your selfish karma. Now,
sit down.  Yes, sir. But if Yen
hadn't pointed this out, you wouldn't have been
able to eliminate those sins. Do you understand? You
can't eliminate karma, so whatever the
King of Death does, that's what matters. And when
Yen mentioned the time of repentance, that's when
we started repenting.
We, the great assembly, see how difficult it is to practice. Have you managed to leave the
path? Have you managed to leave the path? Have you managed to
leave the path? Have you managed to leave the path? No.
That's it, little by little,
not just reading a few verses of
sutras, a few lines of verses, listening
to a few lectures, and then thinking you're good
and rushing off to
preach. Otherwise, you won't be able to preach here, you'll be
forbidden. Yen was also forbidden before, and
others said that
everything is forbidden, you have to ask questions, you have to
explain. Because Yen is worried about the
great assembly, where we know the Dharma, where
we see faults everywhere, but at that time we have
n't accepted the corrections, pointing out faults,
pointing out faults, it will cause resentment. So we
have to make a rule that we must listen to the great
assembly, understand?  That's it, the congregation
sees, just one act of repentance. If you don't know, then you've
committed a sin, so you
must practice for a long time, until you achieve
liberation. You must practice until you understand more than
the person who taught you, then you can
begin to ask questions. "I want to ask
you a question," you say, "Excuse me,
I'll go to another congregation." "I
practice because you... No, you can't guide
me anymore." Do you understand, teachers? That's how it is. That's
why the teachers
say, "If there's anything you don't understand, ask the teachers." Do you
understand, teachers? Or if there's anything that does
n't quite match what the teachers say, you're allowed to ask. The teachers
are like that, and I'm like that too. I learn from the
teachers like that. Why be afraid? If you're too good,
others will eventually learn. They teach you,
but because of that fear in your heart, you'll never become
good. If
you don't have that kind of heart, you'll never become good.
Just serve. As I've said, if
anyone is better than me here with
this congregation...  If you are stubborn and refuse to yield
to others, you will suffer harm and lose your
life because that's how people's blessings
are meant to be. Do you understand?
It's not about karma; you can't just
sit
there and keep enjoying yourself.
But because the person
below is ignorant, their heart is even
more ignorant. That is, their heart is too wicked,
so they just have to endure it.
Do you understand? I've given all the
members the opportunity to discuss things together, and
then we all work together. If anything isn't right,
feel
free to discuss it. No one is being oppressed by anyone else
in all the members' work,
right? All members are equal. Everyone has their own
opinion, but no one is allowed to
impose their opinion on others. That's how
we accumulate blessings. So, I'm
reminding all the members of this, and all
those who are not in
the club and go to other Dharma centers should
also apply this. That means
we are all equal, but
in the present moment, we must know what kind of person is right.
Those above and those below, you know, only by
understanding the community can we truly
benefit. Today, I will share with you
this Dhammapada, which you
have heard a long time ago, but because it
relates to our
practice today, I
will talk to you about the
merits of our practice so that we can
grow. It is the Four Great Debts of Gratitude: the
gratitude to parents and the gratitude to teachers and masters—we have already practiced and
learned, right? Today, I will
talk about the gratitude to the nation and society, that is, gratitude
to the homeland. If a practitioner does
n't have gratitude to those who
protect them—that is, the homeland protecting them—then if
they are not
grateful, they will never be able to practice. Do you
understand? So, how should a great
Buddhist disciple express gratitude to the homeland in the
right way? Today, I will
read this sutra and share it with
you to see if, even if we are
alone, we can repay
this debt. The sutra of the Seven Laws that
prevent the country from being destroyed means that
our country will not be destroyed.  This means
not being harmed by anyone, and not being subjected to the
tyrannical rule of a king who would lead
his country to suffering. Does the general public
desire this? They certainly do. But
even with desire, if they don't know how to achieve it, it
won't work. Therefore,
we must study Buddhism to learn
how to protect our country.
Reading Buddhist scriptures, especially those belonging to the Minor Collection
of the Nikaya, shows the Buddha's presence at Mount Vulture Peak in
Rajagriha with
1250 monks. At that time, there was a king of the Magadha kingdom
named Ajatashatru who ruled over 500
small countries. The neighboring country, Vietnam, refused to submit, so
King Ajatashatru led his army to attack.
That is, King Ajatashatru ruled over
a large country with 500 smaller countries under
his control. At that time,
there was only one small country next door,
Vietnam, which refused to submit,
so King Ajatashatru decided to lead his army to attack and
force it to submit.
Bodhisattvas fear the causes, but what do sentient beings fear? They fear the
consequences. Let the masses hear this
sutra.  This is to show us how to sow
seeds, and we should tell many people to
sow seeds. The king, because he had the
intention of sending troops to attack
this country of Vietnam, summoned his
ministers to ask for their opinion. He
asked the king whether Vietnam, a wealthy country
producing many treasures, would submit to
him. According to the ministers, should he
send troops to conquer it?
In the court, there was a Prime Minister named
Vu Xa who replied, "Yes, we should attack." The king said, "Vu Xa, the
Buddha is not far away. He is a sage and philosopher,
possessing the Threefold Knowledge, knowing everything.
Go to the Buddha and ask him carefully, and
see if we can win if we send troops to attack that country." The Prime Minister immediately ordered his chariot to be drawn. Vu Xa
went before the Buddha, bowed, and paid his respects. The Buddha told him to
sit to one side and asked, "Prime
Minister, where do you come from?" Vu Xa replied, "The king sent his
son to pay his respects and inquire about the Buddha's health,
as always." The Buddha continued, "Are the king and
the people all well?" Vu Xa
replied, "The king and the people are all well." On
that occasion, he revealed that the king and the country of Vietnam had a
feud.  The Prime Minister urged the King to send troops to conquer Vietnam,
wondering if, according to the Buddha's will, victory was possible.
The Buddha replied, "This is the Prime Minister. The people of Vietnam practice seven principles, therefore they cannot win. I hope the King will consider carefully and not rashly send troops." The Prime Minister then asked the Buddha what those seven principles were. The Buddha replied, "The
seven principles are: firstly, the people of that country
often gather to discuss the righteous Dharma and cultivate
merit, claiming to have attained enlightenment. Secondly, the
people often gather together
to discuss matters of attaining enlightenment.
Compared to the Buddha, the
Buddha calls this the righteous Dharma, the Dharma of the
Buddha. But compared to
sentient beings, the Buddha only takes the aspect of cultivating
merit to enter the righteous Dharma. Do
you understand, teacher? It is not yet the
Buddha's path to liberation. The Buddha
has not yet reached that point in Vietnam. Otherwise, some might
suspect that the people of Vietnam
are all Buddhist practitioners.
They only practice the path of attaining enlightenment, that is, the
Buddha taught the Dharma of giving, giving to sentient beings so that
they receive blessings and
no one can infringe upon them.
Because of these blessings, they are not enslaved."
Without the masses, no slaves can be made. That
's the first part: the people of that country, they
practice virtue in that way, so it's impossible to
defeat them. Secondly, I, the subjects of
that country, from top to bottom, are united in heart and mind. Those who
serve as subjects are loyal and upright, and those who rule
listen to advice and are not cruel or violent. That
is, the people of my village do
their jobs diligently and are very
loyal to the country. Remember,
that year, Yen was a second-tier city.
From here to my hometown, the road is
full of huge potholes.
My old golden car, that old-fashioned car, was constantly shaking. My
head was
bouncing up and down from the seat
like this. Below, people were being
carried around, and on top, pigs and pig urine
were dripping all over me.
And sitting in that car, there were 100 people,
and the bumps were just shaking, no different from India
now. And yet, in just a few years, everyone has
motorbikes, everyone has
cars, the roads are full of roads, and then there are
highways. Isn't that fast?
There's a transitional period, Yen just gave an example like
this: The other day,
Yen told the gentlemen that they were going to
pave the path leading down to the
toilet, and at that time, Yen was standing there
and the weather was calm. But yesterday it
rained, and that path, without
trees, got all muddy. Then they had to
bring out the trees and put them back in place. So next time, Yen
learned from experience that if there's any change, she'll
just ask the gentlemen to put it down properly,
not just let it go like that. Isn't that why we
have to have a transitional period and learn from
experience? That's why when
people go before,
they also have
shortcomings because it's a
transitional period, a time to learn from experience.
Action also has to have lessons
learned, there have to be mistakes. For example,
you guys make mistakes, there have to be
mistakes so that we can
transform the masses, do you understand? Because we
lack analytical intelligence, we lack
understanding, so we create karma. We just keep
cursing. If it were in my hands, I could do it like
this.  No, we also have to make
mistakes. People ask if we can only
succeed if we stumble, right? Without
stumbling, where would success come from?
We should only focus on cultivating
our morals, and then we will have blessings,
like having superiors take care of us. For
example, here we are, the
government takes care of us; if
they didn't, how could we be sitting
here? That's right, isn't it? They
grant land to temples and monasteries to build
freely for us to
practice, and
then they
grant us permission to build temples for us to practice.
If it weren't for that, it would
belong to some bandits, and
we wouldn't even be able to come here, right?
So, everyone must remember to be
grateful. That's what Yen will
continue. Therefore, we must be intelligent citizens, and then
we will be loyal and upright people. Is that
clear, teacher?
Here, we will become loyal and upright citizens. The
people are loyal and upright, and the
king listens to advice.  The cockroach is not evil,
rest assured, just now I listened to the advice and
there was a process of elimination, so I had to listen
to the advice. The public understands, right? Don't worry about that issue. Thirdly, the people of that country uphold the righteous law, advising each other not to care about lost possessions, not daring to commit crimes, everyone above and below follows the rules. That
rule is that when going out, you must wear a
helmet, you must not speed or drive recklessly.
We don't even bother to do that,
so how can we expect the country to be peaceful, right?
Now, Yen will give an example. In
our congregation, Yen left a water bottle on the sign, then
went up to the mountain and came back with only the empty
bottle left.
That doesn't count as Yen's, okay?
But that's not the rule,
that's theft. Do you all understand?
Then Yen will just say this, this: the
public should
not take what belongs to others. In
our Buddhist faith, there is a precept against stealing.
Remember that? Of course, it's given away. That means
whoever takes it, I will give it back
without accusing them of theft, but even
without accusing them, they will still suffer the karmic consequences of stealing.  Do
you understand? For example, the Buddha didn't
blame Devadatta. The Buddha always
loved Devadatta. But Devadatta
still had to pay for his karma because of the evil he inflicted on the Buddha.
So I don't blame anyone for taking
anything from me, okay? I don't consider that as something I
lost. Because when I didn't see it, I already gave it away,
so I didn't investigate the person who
took it, I didn't look for who
took it. But this is the cause of the
Dharma lesson and also the cause to remind the
congregation, understand? Secondly, regarding this precept, it's
not allowed, understand? Because
people can give things to others and still cling to
them. But we must pay the karmic consequences, understand?
A little dirty hands don't have to pay the karmic consequences,
what does that have to do with dirty hands? Do
you understand? Only when it comes to medicine to cure diseases and
save people do we have to do this.
Do you understand? For example, if someone is wearing a pair of shoes,
or something like that, you have to borrow them, then you
have to stand there and wait for the
owner to come and take them away. Then you're done. Do you
understand? You stand
there and wait for the owner to come and
say, "Excuse me, I'm sorry, because at that time
I had something to borrow."  This situation happens,
that situation happens, so even though
I'm absent, I still ask, is that person's heart
truly sincere? And that other thing
is karma, teacher, do you understand? We can't be like
that.
We need to explain it in detail so
that we can practice and progress on the path. That is, everyone, from
top to bottom, follows the
established rules. That is, whatever rules have been set
must be followed, but do you understand? Fourth,
the people of that country maintain etiquette and respect,
distinguishing between men and women, big and small, in order,
not letting things go astray. That's how the morality
of their country is.
I won't explain this part anymore because the
audience already understands. Fifth, the people of
that country are filial and respectful to their parents, and the teachers
listen to the people's advice and teachings, considering it a national
law. Filial piety is a
national law, but here, all
day long there are cases of
child abuse, child molestation, murder of fathers and mothers, murder of
grandparents, rape of mothers.
How can this country not be burdened,
teacher? That's right,
then the people of that country...  That's how people know that according to the
weather, the land is precious, rice and grain are harvested in all four seasons, and the
people diligently cultivate and plant without neglecting it. That means the people are diligent in
labor, they are not lazy. But here,
all day long, parents work for their children, and in
shops, people sit around betting on
football, betting on all sorts of things like cockfighting, killing buffalo, and
all sorts of other morally reprehensible acts. Is that
right? Then how can
our people not be productive? How can
the risk of war
not occur? Is that right? The
risk of oppression, the risk of being
oppressed, it must happen because
our people are like that. That country respects
morality. In our country, there are monks, saints, and
Arhats from afar who come to offer gifts of clothes,
blankets, beds, medicine, etc. But
here, in this respect, it's
relatively a little, although not very
much, but it's relatively
right. No king who
practices these seven principles will not be in
danger, even if you bring the whole world's army to
attack, they will not win. This is the Prime
Minister, just like the people of this country.  The Vietnamese only
practiced one method and couldn't
win, let alone practicing
all seven methods. Yen Trach, here, said that the
people of Taiwan don't eat or
cut off food because they only practice
one method. But
their country is small, they haven't been attacked, have they? Do you
see that?
Yen doesn't follow history
like the one she heard when she went to Taiwan the other day.
People said that even though it's a
small country,
their military and everything else is
very good, no one can defeat them, right?
Is the military really that good? Then,
Mr. Tuan Anh, who's talking about the military now? It's
true, because the
people of Taiwan practice the
method of not eating or cutting off food. Yen goes
out like this: she leaves her belongings and motorbike with the keys in the ignition,
never locking or
closing the door. She just leaves them outside, closes the
door, and goes to sleep. That's how it is in their whole
city and country. They
leave their belongings exactly where they are, and
they are very respectful.  Yen was standing here
waiting to cross the road. That means the road was empty,
but pedestrians only crossed when the light was red.
They were
n't like us, who see no one and
run across, or see people and
still weave through traffic.
People
follow rules and
regulations, they're very compliant. So Yen was standing
there, and then a guy came to get his
phone repaired. He was replacing the
phone case or screen, it
only took a moment, and Yen saw him. He finished replacing it,
and Yen stood there
waiting to cross. Yen watched, and after he
finished, he took the phone and
handed it back to the owner. The
owner also took it back with both hands, and they both
stood up and bowed. But
the guy was covered in tattoos, and
he was supposed to be repairing a phone,
but over there, it was
a kind of art, not a real art form. It's
clearly not an art form, is
it?  Feeling the morality
of people, always respecting their unwavering loyalty, we
must support the teacher's character,
right? Then naturally, in the
country, the military will
develop, do you understand? It will
develop naturally, and even if it
develops or not,
the blow will naturally strike those on the side who are afraid, do
you understand? It may not necessarily be
true, but that blow of the wind is the
blessing of people, do you understand?
So today, I remind you all that
we, as human beings, must always abide by the rules of the Party, do you understand? Abide by respecting
those above and below, and dedicate the merit to our country so
that our country may be independent and free,
our country may develop, our country may
be peaceful, our country may not be
invaded by foreign powers, and dedicate the merit to
our people so that they may be free from wrong views and
foreign influences. We only need to be
like that, because we are
citizens of Vietnam. If we can cultivate ourselves like that, what gratitude will we repay
to the nation? Who will be the one to go to the front lines from
now until the end of their lives without stealing? Raise your
hand!  Hey, little CP, raise your hands!
Then, I'll ask for your forgiveness, guys. Just don't eat
CP, okay? If you eat it,
the blessings will come to you later, so you won't have to be
reborn here. Do you understand? This is
actually about repaying the country's kindness in the present,
but the kindness we cultivate will determine
what country we'll be reborn into in the future. We'll never be subjugated again. It's all for
our benefit, not for anyone else.
But right now,
we must do good for the country
so we have the virtue to practice. The virtue of
not stealing is within the Buddhist precepts,
right?
Not stealing is a Buddhist precept, but even if
our minds don't steal,
our karma can manifest
in unintentional acts of
theft. At that time, we repent for the gross actions
we've taken, and then
someone will remind us of the subtle ones. For example, today
you all came here on your own accord, understand? You came here to
protect the Dharma, you came here on your own accord, you
heard, you knew—that's because of the
blessings you've made in vowing to uphold the
precepts, understand?  No, that's not right. Don't worry,
but when you vow to uphold the precepts,
the opportunity to steal won't come to you
because you have good fortune,
so you don't lack anything. Therefore, you don't need to steal.
Your good fortune generates enough to prevent you from
ever committing
that evil deed. Do you understand, everyone? When you vow to
uphold the precepts, your good fortune generates enough to prevent
you from doing evil.
Now, try asking yourself, if Yen
wanted to steal, she couldn't. It's
because she has everything she needs.
Everyone around her
gives her everything; she doesn't need anything, so why would she steal?
That's
your good fortune. It's clear.
If people were hungry and lacked clothing,
they would steal. But
now, she doesn't lack food or clothing; the community provides everything. What's there to steal? There's no
need to cut anything, only to give more.
Therefore, when you vow to uphold the
precepts, you have good fortune, but
that good fortune protects you. You
never have the opportunity or the conditions to steal. You can never steal. Even if you
wanted to
steal, you couldn't.  Regarding
what to do, who only steals to give away?
We're right, aren't we? Therefore,
the masses vow to uphold the precepts for
their own benefit and to repay the gratitude to the
Fatherland. Do you understand? Repaying the gratitude to the
Fatherland brings us
blessings. Where we are born, our children will easily understand the merits we receive, and we can
dedicate them to our loved ones.
When our Buddha
reads this, some outsiders might
suspect that he is going to fight. The Buddha advised
against fighting, so he said
that. Remember, the Buddha uses skillful means
and never deceives his teachers. Do you understand?
If the country of Vietnam
didn't have these seven principles, and King A Xa
could win, the Buddha would teach
King A Xa differently. That country is
very suffering, but if they are defeated, they will
win immediately. But if you do that,
you will suffer this, that, and that. The
Buddha advises against fighting. The
Buddha never lies,
never uses skillful means. How could the Buddha
encourage people to fight? He knows perfectly well that...  We won,
but the Buddha had to say that to avoid being
attacked. The Buddha would never do that. Do you
understand, Teacher? We must understand
that the Buddha never says anything wrong. If
someone is at fault, the Buddha will point out their fault so they can
correct it. The Buddha never takes
sides. The Buddha is very egalitarian. He does
n't favor one person and doesn't hate another. The
truth is revealed as it is.
When reading the verse, the Buddha immediately said, "
Winning against others is not enough to rely on. Even if you win, suffering is
within you." This is teaching you to let go of worldly attachments.
If you win against others, it's not enough to
rely on. That is, it's not enough to
always rely on
your victory. Winning against others means there will
be times of victory and times of defeat,
so you can't always rely on
being the superior one, the victor. Even if
you win, suffering is within you. That means when you win, the
karmic consequences will still come to you
because you overpowered others. Because you oppressed others, you
must seek the Dharma to overcome yourself. After winning, you will attain
liberation. That leads to practicing the Buddha's teachings.
That is, you must find a way to overcome your
own greed.
Overcoming your own greed
I no longer have to suffer in the
struggle for victory and defeat. When
Vu Xa heard the Buddha's verses, he immediately saw the
path. At that time, everyone in the assembly
attained enlightenment and cultivated the path to enlightenment. The Buddha's power was already complete. The
Prime Minister then rose from his seat, bowed to the
Buddha, and recounted everything
to the King of Vietnam. He explained his intention to attack the
country of Viet Ky, following the Buddha's teachings, to educate the people. After that, Viet Ky submitted,
respecting each other, and the country
prospered. Was it King A Xa The who, after
hearing this, used this method of victory, which was very
good? Therefore, King A Xa The used it to
govern his country. Because he governed his country
in this way, his merit
increased, and according to the karmic cycle,
because Viet Ky also used these seven methods,
and King A Xa The also used these seven methods,
but the latter was smaller, so
the cause and effect brought him to
submission. This greater state won without fighting, and he
won, my dear audience.
Now, I will only say this:
submission. Anyone who has watched the Romance of the Three Kingdoms, I
don't remember.  I don't know if it's the Romance of the Three
Kingdoms or something else, but there's some kind of
detailed explanation,
but then they set fire, and the wind blows.
Conversely, ordinary people practice the Dharma, and the
Heavenly beings support whatever they do, and they
tell the public that it's a
true story of compassion. Uncle Ho was born
here, in his husband's hometown, the Yen family, and there was a
piece of land in the village. Then the French came and
attacked. This is just a story told by Mrs. Yen,
meaning guerrilla warfare. We were here, and the
French were on the other side. That means they were only separated by
a single animal. For 78 nights straight,
we couldn't resist, so the next day
the French occupied
Mrs. Yen's village.
They set up a fort on that hill. After
setting up the fort, our guerrilla forces could
only hold out to prevent them from attacking.
Then, two days later,
they retreated and returned to the other side.
Our people crawled out and scattered the entire mound. It
turned out to be full of golden fire ants, so we
had to run away. How could we stay there? The
golden fire ants were there, while our guerrilla forces...
I spent so many days and months there, there wasn't a single
fire ant, I didn't get bitten at all. Yet, the
French came there and instantly seized half the gold, then
chased us away to the other side.
That means the guerrillas and the villagers were united in love and compassion for each other, their hearts focused on the benefit of liberation and freedom. That's why they received that blessing. Even if
our country is small, if
all our people learn these seven principles, it will be
even stronger than the American masses,
right? Self-development, for example, if the
gods support us, then whatever rice we
grow, our children will be well-behaved and virtuous, and we won't
waste money. We see,
right? The land is fertile, the people are
well-behaved, and we won't
waste money. We'll be healthy and won't spend money on hospitals.
Education, and then theft,
gambling, and addiction – if these don't cost money, then
naturally our country will become rich, right?
So, we have to multiply
from small to large, not just for the
whole country. But
our Buddhism will keep expanding,
our Dharma centers will keep expanding.  then human beings
If goodness increases, those evil people
will transform into
good people. Do we, the masses,
desire this? If
so,
we must diligently cultivate and practice the
Dharma so that it can spread widely. We
also hope that
from now until the end of our lives in Vietnam, the
Buddha Dharma will flourish. Then, the true path of humanity will be revealed through the
Buddha Dharma.
Now, we ask the masses to dedicate this merit so
that we may truly attain enlightenment. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni.
Our Dharma practice has been completed.
We respectfully ask the Buddha to grant us the opportunity to
practice. Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]